do not boast about tomorrow for you do
do not boast about tomorrow for you do not know what a day may bring forth let
not know what a day may bring forth let
not know what a day may bring forth let another man praise you and not your own
another man praise you and not your own
another man praise you and not your own mouth a stranger and not your own lips a
mouth a stranger and not your own lips a
mouth a stranger and not your own lips a stone is heavy and sand is weighty but a
stone is heavy and sand is weighty but a
stone is heavy and sand is weighty but a fools wrath is heavier than both of them
fools wrath is heavier than both of them
fools wrath is heavier than both of them wrath is cruel and anger a torrent but
wrath is cruel and anger a torrent but
wrath is cruel and anger a torrent but who is able to stand before jealousy
who is able to stand before jealousy
who is able to stand before jealousy open rebuke is better than love
open rebuke is better than love
open rebuke is better than love carefully concealed faithful are the
carefully concealed faithful are the
carefully concealed faithful are the wounds of a friend but the kisses of an
wounds of a friend but the kisses of an
wounds of a friend but the kisses of an enemy are deceitful a satisfied soul
enemy are deceitful a satisfied soul
enemy are deceitful a satisfied soul loathes the honeycomb but to a hungry
loathes the honeycomb but to a hungry
loathes the honeycomb but to a hungry soul every bitter thing is sweet like a
soul every bitter thing is sweet like a
soul every bitter thing is sweet like a bird that wanders from its nest is a man
bird that wanders from its nest is a man
bird that wanders from its nest is a man who wanders from his place pointment and
who wanders from his place pointment and
who wanders from his place pointment and perfume delight the heart and the
perfume delight the heart and the
perfume delight the heart and the sweetness of a man's friend gives the
sweetness of a man's friend gives the
sweetness of a man's friend gives the light by hearty counsel do not forsake
light by hearty counsel do not forsake
light by hearty counsel do not forsake your own friend or your father's friend
your own friend or your father's friend
your own friend or your father's friend nor go to your brother's house in the
nor go to your brother's house in the
nor go to your brother's house in the day of your calamity better is a
day of your calamity better is a
day of your calamity better is a neighbor nearby than a brother far away
neighbor nearby than a brother far away
neighbor nearby than a brother far away my son be wise and make my heart plant
my son be wise and make my heart plant
my son be wise and make my heart plant that I may answer him who reproaches me
that I may answer him who reproaches me
that I may answer him who reproaches me a prudent man foresees evil and hides
a prudent man foresees evil and hides
a prudent man foresees evil and hides himself the simple pass on and are
himself the simple pass on and are
himself the simple pass on and are punished
punished
punished take the garment of him who is surety
take the garment of him who is surety
take the garment of him who is surety for a stranger and hold it in pledge
for a stranger and hold it in pledge
for a stranger and hold it in pledge when he is surety for a seductress he
when he is surety for a seductress he
when he is surety for a seductress he who blesses his friend with a loud voice
who blesses his friend with a loud voice
who blesses his friend with a loud voice rising early in the morning it will be
rising early in the morning it will be
rising early in the morning it will be counted occurs to him a continual
counted occurs to him a continual
counted occurs to him a continual dripping on a very rainy day and a
dripping on a very rainy day and a
dripping on a very rainy day and a contentious woman are alike
contentious woman are alike
contentious woman are alike whoever restrains her restrains the wind
whoever restrains her restrains the wind
whoever restrains her restrains the wind and grasps oil with his right hand as
and grasps oil with his right hand as
and grasps oil with his right hand as iron sharpens iron so a man sharpens the
iron sharpens iron so a man sharpens the
iron sharpens iron so a man sharpens the countenance of his friend whoever keeps
countenance of his friend whoever keeps
countenance of his friend whoever keeps the fig tree will eat its fruit so he
the fig tree will eat its fruit so he
the fig tree will eat its fruit so he who waits on his master will be honored
who waits on his master will be honored
who waits on his master will be honored as in water face reflects face so a
as in water face reflects face so a
as in water face reflects face so a man's heart reveals the man hell and
man's heart reveals the man hell and
man's heart reveals the man hell and destruction are never full so the eyes
destruction are never full so the eyes
destruction are never full so the eyes of man are never satisfied the refining
of man are never satisfied the refining
of man are never satisfied the refining part is for silver and the furnace for
part is for silver and the furnace for
part is for silver and the furnace for gold and a man is valued by what others
gold and a man is valued by what others
gold and a man is valued by what others say of him
say of him
say of him though you grind a fool in a mortar with
though you grind a fool in a mortar with
though you grind a fool in a mortar with a pestle along with crushed grain
a pestle along with crushed grain
a pestle along with crushed grain yes his foolishness will not depart from
yes his foolishness will not depart from
yes his foolishness will not depart from you
you
you be diligent to know the state of your
be diligent to know the state of your
be diligent to know the state of your flocks and attend to your herds for
flocks and attend to your herds for
flocks and attend to your herds for riches are not forever nor does a crown
riches are not forever nor does a crown
riches are not forever nor does a crown endure to all generations when the hay
endure to all generations when the hay
endure to all generations when the hay is removed and the tender grass shows
is removed and the tender grass shows
is removed and the tender grass shows itself and the herbs of the mountains
itself and the herbs of the mountains
itself and the herbs of the mountains are gathered in the lands will provide
are gathered in the lands will provide
are gathered in the lands will provide your clothing and the goats the price of
your clothing and the goats the price of
your clothing and the goats the price of a field you shall have enough goat's
a field you shall have enough goat's
a field you shall have enough goat's milk for your food for the food of your
milk for your food for the food of your
milk for your food for the food of your household and the nourishment of your
household and the nourishment of your
household and the nourishment of your maidservants
maidservants
maidservants [Music]